>> Sarah Drasner: Typography for lawyers
is as great book that's kind of old but
a lot of things still hold through.
So if you're interested in learning
some really good rules for
type, this is a really good book.
And it's written with the assumption
that you're a lawyer.
But did also applies for
things on the lab as well.
So in this book it has
these kind of cool charts.
In fact,
your reader is quite different from you.
The attention span for
the writer is long, the reader is short,
interest in topic is high,
the reader is low, and things like that.
Legal writers, unfortunately, imagine
that their comparison looks like this.
Attention span, whatever it takes.
Interest, boundless.
The only reader who might match that
description is your mother or father.
But one thing that they talk about because
of that attention span is line length,
which is really great.
When you have a piece of text that goes on
for a really long time across a screen,
your eye gets pretty fatigued
moving across the page.
And in fact, it's even hard for you to
figure out which line it goes to next so
the longer the line the more it has to
you have to spend some cognition figuring
out where you are on the page.
You might not think of it that way.
You don't think like that was
such a long line of text.
Now where am I but
you kind of notice that you're getting
fatigued a little bit faster like wide.
This is a good article.
Why am I getting so bored?
[LAUGH] Why don't I like it?
So constraining your
line length to 45 to 90
characters is a really good rule of thumb
that people try to use across the web.
So that's also actually
why we use columns.
A lot of times in order to display text so
that we don't have
super long line lengths that's something
that newspapers decided a long time ago.